Making it easier for new contributors to get started with a simple Makefile and a tidy 'contributing' chapter (#558)
plone/plone.api: docs/contribute.md

### System libraries

You need to install system libraries, as described in {ref}`plone:plone-prerequisites-label`.

## Create development environment

After satisfying the prerequisites, you are ready to create your development environment.

> `plone.api` uses `tox` as a wrapper around `coredev.buildout` to simplify development, whereas Plone core uses `coredev.buildout` directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.api` uses `tox` as a wrapper around `coredev.buildout` to simplify development, whereas Plone core uses `coredev.buildout` directly.
Additionally `plone.api` uses `make` commands that invoke the `tox` commands as a convenience and for consistency across Plone packages.
```

Start by changing your working directory to your project folder, and check out the latest `plone.api` source code.

```shell
cd <your_project_folder>
git clone https://github.com/plone/plone.api.git
```

Run `make help` to see the available `make` commands.

```console
check                          Check code base according to Plone standards
clean                          Clean environment
help                           This help message
livehtml                       Build docs and watch for changes
test                           Run tests
```

> Test your code changes with the following command.

Reviewer: Reading this flow, we jump from clone the repo, to `make help`, to running tests, whereas the section heading is "Create development environment". I expect a step that does just that. Of course some of the `make` commands do that, but you would only know that by reading `Makefile` and understanding its syntax.

```suggestion
The `make` commands `check`, `livehtml`, and `test` will create a development environment, if it does not already exist.

Test your code changes with the following command.
```

Author: better. even with this enhancement the isntructions are pretty short.

> You need to install system libraries, as described in {ref}`plone:plone-prerequisites-label`, with the exception of GNU make.

Reviewer: With Make, we need to make sure it's installed.

```suggestion
You need to install system libraries, as described in {ref}`plone:plone-prerequisites-label`.
```

> ### tox

Reviewer: How do we use tox in Make if it is not installed?

Author: All make commands that run tox should depend on `$(BIN_FOLDER)/tox` which installs tox etc and activates the pre-commit hook. See https://github.com/plone/plone.api/blob/docs-enhancements/Makefile#L48-L52 , a wonderful trick, lend from plone.meta

[tox](https://tox.wiki/en/stable/index.html) automates and standardizes testing in Python.
Install tox into your Python user space with the following command.

```shell
python -m pip install --user tox
```

> ### pre-commit

Reviewer: Same. How do we use pre-commit if it is not installed? Does tox handle it as a dependency?

Author: All make commands that run tox should depend on $(BIN_FOLDER)/tox which installs tox etc and activates the pre-commit hook. See https://github.com/plone/plone.api/blob/docs-enhancements/Makefile#L48-L52 , a wonderful trick, lend from plone.meta

Reviewer: Nice!

git clone https://github.com/plone/plone.api.git
```

Run `make help` to see the available `make` commands.

> ```shell

Reviewer: This is now console output, not a shell command.

````suggestion
```console
````

check                          Check code base according to Plone standards
clean                          Clean environment
help                           This help message
livehtml                       Build docs and watch for changes
test                           Run tests
```

> Test your code changes with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test your code changes with the following command.
```

{doc}`plone:contributing/documentation/index`
```

When adding or modifying documentation, you can build the documentation with the following command.

> The started process automatically reloads changes to the documentation as you edit it in a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you edit the documentation, the started process automatically reloads your changes in the web browser.
```

```shell
make livehtml
```

> You can run a link checker on documentation.

Reviewer: I added linkcheck for consistency, and pushed 8cc4b1d89db47d5b2b27b832464a8063074b6a71
